Hello! Thanks for listening to the Learning English Conversations podcast.
This next episode is part of our music series,
My Song, My Home, where we learn language from a different song each week.
In each episode we visit a different city and meet a new musician.
It's a great way to practice listening to real English speakers
and you'll learn lots of English expressions from the music in the program.
We hope you enjoy it!
It's it's got such a musical history, the city, obviously you've got the Beatles
but there are so many other amazing bands that have come from here,
that there's so much music coming out of Liverpool.
We're in an old library with wooden shelves full of old books
and huge bright windows in the centre of Liverpool,
a city in the northwest of England.
My name is Grace Chloe, I am a singer and pianist and songwriter.
Like Grace says, Liverpool is probably most famous for being the home of the
rock band The Beatles, who became famous in the 1960s.
But there's a lot more to see.
Welcome to My Song, My Home. In this podcast we visit a different place in
each episode and meet a musician that lives there.
Today, Grace will explain why she decided to become a musician
and tell us about living in Liverpool. We'll also learn some vocabulary from
her music later in the program. Find a transcript of this episode to
read along on our website bbclearningenglish.com
Grace has always had an interest in music.
I knew like every word to every song that was on the radio,
all the sort of old songs and the new songs I'd always be singing along.
If we went to a restaurant, I'd sit there with my headphones in,
singing out loud, annoying people at other tables.
Grace has been singing as long as she can remember,
and she began playing the piano as a child.
I lost my eyesight when I was four, so I had to learn to read braille and stuff
like that. And it was the first time I'd ever heard a song like this.
I was a child, and I didn't know how to read it.
I didn't know when stuff like that, and it was the
mobility teacher, so the person that sort of taught me how to use a long cane and
stuff. They suggested that learning the piano
could improve my sense of touch and my strength in my
hands and my wrists and stuff. Grace is blind and had to learn to read braille.
This is a system for reading for people without eyesight,
where small bumps can be read by running your fingers across the page.
Because Grace had to learn to use touch for reading braille,
a teacher suggested learning the piano might help.
I started playing it for those reasons, but then just
as soon as I started, I absolutely realised how much I absolutely loved it.
Music quickly became a huge part of Grace's life,
and she began to love performing when she got a chance to sing on stage
at a festival. There was a group there called Rocky Oki,
and they're basically a live band karaoke band. Rocky Oki is a play on the word
karaoke, which is where just the music but not the voice of a popular song is
played so that you can sing along yourself. This
version was with a live band, and Grace got picked to sing.
I just remember the second I opened my mouth, the
tent of people just went absolutely crazy. By the end of the song
everyone was singing, there were people sort of running in from outside,
and when I finished, the crowd started chanting, saying one more song.
When Grace performed, the crowd started chanting, repeating the same words.
One more song. From that moment, Grace wanted to be a musician.
Yeah, it nearly makes me cry talking about it. It was just such an incredible feeling,
and it was sort of, that was the first time I really
knew deep down that I would never want to do anything other than music.
So Grace moved to Liverpool to study music at the university,
and it has quickly become home. It is the friendliest, scariest,
most off-the-wall, lovely, absolutely bananas place in the world.
The people here are the loveliest people you will meet
anywhere. Grace describes Liverpool as off-the-wall
or unusual, and bananas very silly. It's also been a great place for Grace to
write and perform.
Grace is going to perform her song Perplexed. Have a listen and visit our
website to read the lyrics.
You say you're back and I can't quite believe you see your eyes, in your eyes,
behind the green, and don't understand what's going on.
Oh God, I'm feeling that something is wrong.
I'm lost with you, babe, God keeps saying we're great, it's time we did some
straight up talking, I need some understanding.
Don't know where we're standing, don't know where we're at,
and I can't get no answers from you.
No, you know it's true, and no, I don't hear what you say too.
I've been in between the subjects, you've got me perplexed.
I can't believe I had anxiety that I couldn't love you as much as you love
me, but three months on didn't seem so long,
and yeah, our positions have completely swung.
I worship the ground you walk on, you worship the ground behind me,
begging for you out your feet, begging just like the tide had me down on my knees.
I'm lost with you, babe, God keeps saying we're great, it's time we did some
straight up talking, I need some understanding.
Don't know where we're standing, don't know where we're at,
and I can't get no answers from you.
No, you know it's true, and no, I don't hear what you say too.
I've been in between the subjects, you've got me perplexed.
The song is called Perplexed because Grace wanted to include this strange word in a song.
Perplexed means confused because something is too difficult to understand.
You might be perplexed by a maths problem for example,
but in the song Grace is perplexed by a relationship with somebody.
In the song Grace uses the phrase, worship the ground you walk on.
I worship the ground you walk on, you worship the ground behind me.
It's a common expression in English, it means to love or admire someone a lot,
so much so that the things they've touched, like the ground they've walked on,
become special. In the song Grace uses the phrase, straight up talking.
I'm lost with you babe, don't keep saying we're great, it's time we did some
straight up talking. Straight in this context means honest or truthful,
straight up talking means an honest conversation.
You can also be a straight talker, which is someone who tells the truth
even if it's difficult. One of the lyrics in the song is
reading between the subtext. I've been in between the subjects, you've got me perplexed.
Now this is a playful take on a common English expression,
reading between the lines. If you read between the lines you try to
understand meanings or emotions that are not literally in the words on a page or
that someone has said. This hidden meaning can also be called a
subtext, so if you were reading between the subtext,
like Grace does in the song, you would be looking for an even more hidden
meaning, maybe one that isn't even there. In the song it's about being
confused about a relationship and looking for answers.
Listen to the rest of Grace's song and read along using the lyrics on our
website. Are there any other phrases she uses about
being confused or perplexed?
Are you never nothing, nothing at all?
Oh yes, at that point, I'm with you, I guess that feels safe now, I feel small.
I'm lost with you, babe, can't keep saying the big, great.
Lost with you, babe, can't keep nothing, smiling.
Oh yeah, we're okay.
I'm lost with you, babe, can't keep saying we're great.
It's time we did some straight up talking.
I need some understanding, don't know where we're standing,
don't know where we're at, and I can't get no answers from you.
No, you know it's true, and the lines are who you say to.
I'm missing the subject, got me perplexed.
Thanks for listening to My Song, My Home. You can watch Grace's performance
of her song, Perplexed, on our website. Visit bbclearningenglish.com.
Next time, we'll visit Leeds in the north of England to meet another
musician and hear another live performance. See you then!
